YOUR ATMOSPHERE

Our work is highly complex. Rarely will anyone give you a ready-made recipe, at best they will tell you where to look.
That is why you need to rely only on your mental acuity, your wit and ingenuity, your ability to make unconventional moves.
That is, your evolutionary advantages.

Magic practices from the IT world don't work - scrums, standups, rallies, ticketing, code reviews
and other kargo cults with silver bullets.
It's not enough to just "do the right thing" and expect results.
Think critically and only apply what is successful.

We have no frameworks and no people-functions. Intelligence and resourcefulness are valued.
No one stands over your head. Only results are judged.

The goto operator is allowed and widely used. Any hacks leading to the goal are used.
The end always justifies the means. There are no forbidden tricks, only ineffective ones.
A good code is the one that solves the task. Of course, it's good if it's not too crooked and clear enough,
but we'll figure it out.
You don't need code that is stylistically beautiful but does not solve the task.
You need code that solves the task because a solved task means money, yours and mine.

While we're on the subject of code, here's what we consider to be good code:
* simplicity for the dumb. Fuck eight-story designs and fancy features for the sake of fancy features (if you can't do without them, of course).
Write simply, as simply as possible.
* Always explain _intentions_ besides _methods_.
We have a lot of magic being used. Explain everything to the best of your ability, with extended comments.
You should write not only "what I'm doing", but primarily "why I'm doing it".

bad
// allocate memory in a remote process and run shell code
good
// we need to remove hooks on such and such function in the remote process, because otherwise this and that won't work.
// so we allocate memory in the remote process and run the shell code, which is taken from here from the github https://....
// the shell code will find such and such bytes in the prologue of such and such function and patch them to the ones we need.
// there were also variants one (link) and two (link), but they don't work well on such and such systems.

* the best code is the one that doesn't exist (don't write unnecessary code)
Don't make groundwork years in advance.
"Tomorrow" may never come and nobody will need the code.
"Tomorrow" will turn out to be a bad guess.
Brevity, minimalism is our everything.
Occam's Razor cuts off everything, even OOP.

* There is no sense in writing code if it has already been written by someone else. Before writing it, search the Web.
If you take someone else's code, be sure to put a link to the source code where it was taken from.

Because of this, we have a simple license policy - there is none. Ask for someone else's demo and reverse engineer it,
to see how it works. Half of the time you can find an article or sources on the topic by characteristic calls and patterns.
But be aware that the same can be done to your code - how to protect yourself from this is described in another text.

* tolerance
You don't need your opinion about other people's code and methods of work without special request.
Everyone has his own style and handwriting. He has either achieved it or is not with us.


***
We have freedom, as far as it's achievable.
If you produce results, you can do whatever you want. You can hire someone to write it for you, buy it or steal it.
The most important thing is to see it through to the end.
