Finalization objectives:
1. To reliably cut off AVs and researchers from receiving the load
2. Remove behavioral detections by interacting with users
The idea is to manually activate each bot by the operator.

Implementation

0. A switch "Manual payload confirmation" is added to the group settings.
If it is off, everything works as before.
If it is on - as described below.
The switch belongs to the kernel, i.e. it is common for all protocols.

The corresponding macro-switch is added to the loader/bot build.

1. Show loaders that have not yet been given a load in the list of bots in the admin.
In the identifier field, show the key passed by the loader to the admin (see below).
2. Add a button "Confirm payload" - in English "Confirm payload" (you can use icons).
Without pressing this button by the operator, the load is not given to the loader.
3. Add the "Deny payload" button. When this button is pressed, the IP address goes to the list of hanipots, the load is not given.
4. Loader should interact with the user at startup - draw a window that asks for a serial number.
The length of the serial number - 8 characters, letters and numbers (if there are no objections from clients and developers on the length and format).
Window class, window text should either be re-generated from build to build (to avoid string detection),
or be as indistinguishable as possible (such a class should be used by a lot of service windows in the OS).
The key value is validated by character class and length.
Until the key is received, the locker does nothing.
5. The loader must also be able to accept this key from the command line. In this case, the request window is not displayed.
6. The key is passed by the loader in the Cookie field in clear form, the cookie name is arbitrary.
Accordingly, loader:
- server validation is re-entered for proto2; the server encrypts either the load or arbitrary text in any Set-Cookie with the group key.
The loader considers the server valid if the cryptoAPI decryption function produced a valid status.
- finds the first validated server;
- knocks on it in an infinite loop with a random interval from 3 to 15 minutes, ignoring all responses 400, 404, 500, etc.
If the server stops responding (no connection/response), it goes to search for servers.

Backend:
- says 404 Not Found to all incomprehensible load requests from UNKNOWN IP addresses.
If a bot(s) not from the Honeypots subnet already resides at that address, the load is given.
- searches for a Cookie with a value length equal to the length of the key (8).
- considers the value of this Cookie as the identifier of the loader, and draws this request in the list of bots.
- after operator confirmation and issuing the load, the backend pairs the bot with the loader.
To do this:
- the bot at *first tap* must send the md5 of the key in any Fake Cookie.
Accordingly, the loader must pass the key to the bot's process (via command line or any inter-process communication other than writing to a file).
- The backend searches for a loader with the same IP address that has a hash of the key that matches the value of any Fake Cookie.
If the match does not happen for some reason, the bot is considered a hani with all the consequences.
- The bot does not change its current scheme for generating the main identifier.
The key passed by the loader is used once at the moment of the first bounce for validation of the upload and for matching the loader and the bot.


At the time of the first bounces, we already have the real IP address of the loader/bot.
We introduce additional protection:
- The bot ID is bound to the address.
If the browser does not give the real IP, the response is 404.
If a bot bounces an existing ID from a left IP address, the answer is 404.
- Hani now get a 404 Not found response to any requests.

Work of operators

Operators themselves generate a one-time serial list for each upload.
If needed, we can help you write a small script generator.
From this list.
- dj on the phone dictates a number and crosses it off the list.
- The operator validates all incoming calls against this list.
