OBJECTIVE

The new bot is a development of the idea of lightweighting.
In the previous version a minimal set of functions was implemented - different variants of load launching, file downloading, etc.
In the new version even these functions will be removed from the core and will be loaded on demand in the form of implants.
Thus we will try to minimize the contact surface with AB.

The bot and its protocol is an over/under-multiplication of previous versions, i.e. it docks seamlessly with the existing and code base backend.
Some of the protocol commands are not used, some of the commands are new.

ARCHITECTURE

The bot consists of a bootloader, a kernel, and implants.
The loader is optional, it may be possible to load the kernel directly due to its minimalism.

The functions of the kernel are:
- request implant (command)
- send command result
- sending telemetry

Implant functions - everything else.

Implant format - either binary position-independent code or .dll (most likely .dll; it will become clear during development).

The kernel spins in a command request loop, loads the implant, loads parameters and load to it, runs it, sends results.

There is a contradiction between the robustness of the bot to failure and the detectability of AB:
- for resilience it is better to run the implant in a separate process;
- for undetectability, it is better to run the implant in its own process.

We remove the contradiction by adding the flag of the launch context.

Launching in its own process is done using a fileless PE loader .dll - the source code is available on the net.
The second option is https://github.com/DimopoulosElias/SimpleShellcodeInjector/blob/master/SimpleShellcodeInjector.c
The bot core must be wrapped in SEH/VEH exception handlers to achieve crash tolerance.
Running threads should also have exception handling to safely terminate and unhook the .dll after an exception.

The final architecture will be determined by the results of the work.

PROTOCOL

The general protocol framework (request-response cycle, error handling, response format, etc.) is the same as version 1 protocol.
Unless otherwise specified, the load is sent as an HTTP GET response body.

Command format:
%code% %timeout% [%args%]
where
   code - command code
   timeout - timeout to wait for a response (0 - the command is running in the background and ready to request the next command)
   args - arguments are different for different types of commands

0 %timeout% - no operation. Timeout% - number of seconds for which the bot should go to sleep before the next response to the server.
117 %timeout% %payload% - start the implant as shell code. There are no other parameters. Shell code is launched in the context of the current process.
                                                         Note that the only difference from command 17 is the presence of timeout. We may merge these two commands into one.
                                                         The binary load is position-independent binary code and is executed by the bot as it is, without any conversions.
111 %timeout% ?caching? %payload% [%URI% [%args]]      - run the implant as a .dll.
                                                         caching == 0 allows caching of this implant. FIXME, how will the bot know what kind of implant it is? Need the implant id?
                                                                 == 1 the implant should be immediately unloaded after it completes.
                                                         URI is a reference to the main load of the implant.
                                                         If the main load is not used for this implant and this is not the last argument of the command,
                                                         then the value is set to - (minus).
                                                         A more detailed interpretation of the arguments is described in the corresponding section.
?114 %timeout% - reset implant cache. All cached implants must be unloaded.

Sending responses and telemetry is the same as version 1 protocol.


CORE-IMPLANT INTERFACE

The core nuances in passing parameters to the implant and receiving a response from the implant.
For this purpose, both the core and the implant provide an interface to each other.

The Dll must export at least one function with the following interface:

DWORD WINAPI EntryPoint(
    TELEMETRY_PROC lpTelemetryProc,
    LPVOID payload,
    SIZE_T paylen,
    LPVOID args,
    SIZE_T arglen
)

TELEMETRY_PROC is defined like this:

VOID WINAPI send_telemetry(CONST LPVOID message, SIZE_T len)
and is a callback for sending telemetry to the admin.

If both arguments of the send_telemetry function are null, this is a signal from the implant to the parent to unload it.

payload, paylen - load for the implant. The payload is downloaded by the bot from %URI% (command 111) and decrypted with a private key before being sent to the implant.

FIXME the question here is what is better - to simplify the bot and let the implant deal with its own payload? or to prepare it for it, since everything is there for it.

args, arglen - pointer to the buffer and its length with custom arguments of the implant.
The implant parses and interprets the arguments on its own.
The kernel modifies the buffer before passing it to the implant:
- replaces the %id% substring with the bot identifier
- other macros are possible
To do this, the kernel must take care of the safety of such substitution (buffer reallocations, if necessary).

ADMIN

Commands like "run .exe", "run script" will now be implemented through implants.
That's why the command builder should be configurable - earlier it was shardkoded, now menu items and additional fields to them will be taken from configs/configurator.
Therefore we need a configurator of commands, either in the form of a form, or at least in the form of a config.

A command is described by the following fields:
- command name
- implant file
- presence of the implant main load
- type of implant main load: binary/text
- optional parameter 1 (field type)
- optional parameter 2 (field type)
- ...

The main implant load is the file run by the 10-13 run commands.
The optional parameters are (mostly) the command line for the 10-13 commands.
