PRE-ISSUANCE TESTING PLAN

1- Define the battlegroup we are going to distribute.
Combat groups have a numeric spelling (1, 2, 3, etc.) and are intended for combat use only.
Test groups have a symbolic spelling (one, two, etc.) and are intended for development purposes, testing new functionality, finding bugs, code stabilization, etc.
2. Request a set of software for test groups from the coder.
There should be 8 binaries in total - 4 with logs and 4 without:
- 2 binaries each for loader, 32/64
- 2 binaries for the bot, 32/64
3. Those with logs put aside.
They are necessary in case an error in functionality is found - then it will be easier for the developer to localize the problem using these binaries.
4. Crypt both loaders without logs
5. Sign both loaders and both bots without logs
6. Pour the prepared binaries into the admin (to the right group!)
6.1. Only the tester can upload combat versions of software (for combat groups) into the admin area!
6.2 When uploading files, you should specify a new version number for each binary.
The version number must be specified by the developer when issuing.
7. Conduct a smoke test on each AB
7.0. there should be no log files!
loader: %HOMEPATH%\Desktop\dl2.log
bot: %HOMEPATH%Desktop\bd2.log.
Loader: c:\temp\ld.log.
bot: c:\temp/bd.log.
If there are files, it means that we are testing the version with logs and we can't give it out!
7.1. no detection
7.2. bot tapped
7.3. System Info command passes
7.4. if we have time, test all commands. If there is no time, we limit ourselves to 7.3.

GENERAL TESTING PLAN

Test the whole system in complex - resident loader, backdoor, admin.
In the antivirus settings you should disable sending samples and cloud protection, at least at first, so that samples are not merged.

0. We get a set of loaders from the developer - logged and unlogged versions, x86 and x64.
First check the logical version, then the non-logical one. We check it on virtual machines in the network.
We do this so that we can show the log for any error and call the developer on the machine.
If an error occurs while testing the non-logical version, we try to repeat it on the logical version.
If it repeats on the logical version, we fix the log and call the developer.
If it is NOT repeated on the logical version, fix that the bug is present only on the non-logical version.
The mandatory condition of the test success at any step is that there is no activity (popups, messages from AB, etc.) on the screen of the target machine,
unless otherwise specified (for example, if it is not a special build that shows running programs, etc.).

1. Run the loader on the target VM.
2. Go to the admin under the role of an operator, to whom the group of this bot is available.
Wait for a tap, within 5 minutes. If there is no feedback, error, stop.
The bot should be displayed as "online" if it has been contacted for at least 15 minutes.
3. Execute commands one by one.
The first command may be delayed (up to 5 minutes) - this is normal.
3.1 Get System Info
Should get system info in the corresponding tab.
3.2 Run .exe with different combinations of Run Type, Host Process (Mask) fields.
Choose a file that does not require third-party .dll (statically linked). For example, pscp.exe.
The command should be executed and the output text of this command should be in the results of the command execution.

* if timeout = background run is selected, no response to the command is expected - the command is executed in the background and we are not interested in its fate.
The bot is immediately ready to receive new commands.
3.3 Run .dll
TODO
3.4 Run .bat
3.4.1 Enter a separate command, e.g. hostname, whoami, date /t.
The command should execute, the output of the command should contain the output text of the command.
3.4.2 Pour the prepared .bat file of several commands. The tester must know the result of working of this file on his machine.
The script should be executed, the output of the command should contain the output text of this script.
3.5 Run PowerShell
3.5.1 Enter a separate command, such as $PSVersionTable.PSVersion
(outputs the Powershell version)
The cmdlet should run, and the output of the cmdlet should contain the output text of the cmdlet.
3.5.2 Pour the prepared .ps1 file from a few commands. The tester should know the result of running this file on his machine.
The script should be executed, the command execution results should contain the output text of this script.
3.6 Reset
Before executing this command, you should run something long (you can try run .bat timeout 10000),
which will block the bot from executing commands.
After executing Reset, the previous blocking command should be marked as done, the bot is ready to receive the next command.
3.7 Terminate Process
This command kills a process by its pid number (pid)
To do this, you need to prepare the victim process (for example, run notepad.exe by hand and see its number in the Task Manager).
After the command is executed, the process should terminate.
3.8 Download File
This command downloads a file from the target machine (up to 10M in size).
The full path to the file must be entered in the corresponding field.
After the command is executed, the file should be available for downloading, the link should be present in the results of the command execution.
3.9. Suicide
This command removes the loader from the target machine.
After rebooting the machine, the bot should not be tapping.
4. Locking.
After rebooting the machine, the bot should tap in the admin area.
5. Detects.
There should be no detects on either the loader or the bot.
6. Updating
6.1 If you run an x86 loader on an x64 machine, it should first update to the x64 version of itself,
and then load only the x64 bot.
In simple words - the loader should launch the bot of the maximum available bitness.
6.2.1 Go to the admin section under the QA role (this is the person who is responsible for releases and updates)
6.2.2. Prepare a set with a new version of the bot and loader with the same group and the same upgrade paths.
6.2.3. Find out from the developer the line with the version of this kit. Note: each file in the kit may have a different version.
6.2.4. Fill new versions of files into the panel and set the files to the version recognized at the previous step.
6.2.5 Reboot the target machine. The updates should get to the machine.
