CRYPTOPANEL
OPERATOR'S MANUAL

OVERVIEW

Cryptopanel is a service for load autotesting, both ad-hoc (module bot, backdoor) and arbitrary.

The main types of tests are:
- static scanning on dyncheck.com
- dynamic scanning on dyncheck.com
- autotests of a module bot
- backdoor autotests
- antivirus (AV) autotests

For tests we use both someone else's service (dyncheck.com) and our own virtual machine farm.


INTERFACE.

The main Scan section is divided into folders (Uncrypted, EXP, ZSS, etc.).
Each folder is usually handled by a separate user.
The Uncrypted and Others folders are shared.
Uncrypted folder contains uncrypted files, from where they are taken by cryptographers, crypted, and the results are put into their own folder.
The Others folder contains arbitrary load.

When you enter the folder, you can see the files.
For users with appropriate permissions there is also an area for uploading their files - "Drop your files here or click to upload".

Further fields:
Name - file name
Size - file size
Uploaded - upload date
Priority - priority - files with the highest priority have the first number in the queue for tests
Check - start tests:
  Static - static scanning on dyncheck.com
  Dynamic - dynamic scanning on dyncheck.com
  VM - run autotest on virtual machine (VM)
Reports - Reports
  * reports on static scanning on dyncheck.com
  * dynamic scan reports on dyncheck.com
  * VM autotest reports
Actions
  Download - download file
  Delete - delete file

In the VM autotest launch window we see the list of virtual machines, as well as the Test Type field (at the very bottom).
Test types:
* regular - autotest of modular bot
* newbk - backdoor autotest
* AV only - test of random load on AV

Obviously, you should choose the right test type for the file under test.
That is, you must know what exactly you are testing.
If you don't know what exactly you are testing, choose the AV Only test type.
The load will be tested both statically and dynamically.


AUTOTEST REPORTS

When reading reports from autotests, each line of the report reports the pass status of a particular scan.
The report usually starts with the type of antivirus (if the computer has one), e.g.

AV: Bitdefender Total Security

General checks:
- unarchived_static_detect: static AV check
- proactive_detect: dynamic AV check
- network_status: network health check on the test computer

Modular bot:
- client_installed: the bot is installed on the computer and secured. This is usually followed by a bot identifier, such as
DESKTOP-4KGAMLP_W10014393.3A98863768251B6D725CF14F86EDE3D5|yas43
- client_knocked: the bot has pinged to the admin (a ping string like
YYYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.MSEC 1 3 online

- client_modules_detect: post-check for AV - antivirus did not take down the bot after loading and launching modules

Backdoor:
- the log of command execution on the test computer (for today, Get_Sysinfo command) is shown for the backdoor.
- bk_knocked: backdoor knocked into the admin area

Thus, you can find out what happened at each stage of the load execution and localize the error, if any.

A test is considered fully passed if all the items of the autotests are passed.
However, this is not a guarantee that the load is fully functional!
For example, because the number of test environments is limited and it is impossible to consider all cases.
In addition, not all load functions can be tested automatically.


PROBLEMS

Autotests are a complex system, and it sometimes breaks down.
We have tried to do self-diagnostics where we can, but we can't do it for everything.
In any case, if you see one of these messages:

    Cryptopanel proxy <url> is down, please call system administrator.
    Automatic tests are disabled.

    Regular tests are disabled because Lero proxy <url> is down.
    Please call system administrator.

    New BK tests are disabled because BK proxy <url> is down.
    Please call system administrator.

then something is not working and we need to call the cavalry.

Sometimes you can see errors in reports:

* VM dont'get file in 10 min: VM didn't get file in 10 min, test task is canceled.
This happens when:
- VM is slow
- network failure (no connection)
- program failure of autotest scripts
