VPN CLIENT AND ADMIN
Technical Specifications

OBJECTIVE
To develop a VPN client for Windows with user interface,
auto-update function, and control panel (admin panel).

CLIENT
The client has a simple windowed interface, with the following
controls:
* country list - checkboxes and names of countries on behalf of which the
the client can operate on behalf of.
Obtained from the VPN gateway.
There is also meta information next to each country:
Best, worst, and average bandwidth and ping values for the
for the gateways in that country.
* Connect/Disconnect button.

The state machine is as follows:
- Disconnected: not connected.
The list of countries and the Connect button are available.
- Connecting: Connecting
The button is labeled Connecting. The button is available,
but can only be switched to Disconnected.
The country list is locked (gray, disabled).
- Connected: connected.
The button is labeled Connected. The button is available,
but can only be switched to the Disconnected state.
The country list is blocked (gray, disabled).

In the Connected state the ping time should be displayed,
bandwidth and IP address of the gateway.

The client is a wrapper over OpenVPN, which is able to accept the necessary settings from the control server to form the openvpn configuration (or even the ready configuration).
the necessary settings to generate an openvpn config (or even a ready-made config)
and start the openvpn process with connection startup.

INSTALLATOR
The program should have a simple installer on NSIS.
The installer should be able to:
- check if the program is present on the system
- work in update mode if the program is installed.
It should be able to stop the process before updating.

The client itself should have a function to check for updates.
Also, there should be an automatic update check service (Windows service).

The installer should have extension points to run arbitrary .exe and command line scripts.
.exe and command line scripts.
For example, there could be scripts
pre_update.bat
post_update_success.bat
post_update_error.bat
which are executed before and after the installation process (in case of success and failure, respectively).
The scripts must be present and run even if their contents are empty.


CLIENT SETTINGS
- address of the control server (set during installation, later on
can be corrected by auto-updates)
- login (issued upon subscription purchase)
- password

HTTP API
The client connects to the control server (its address is one of the client settings) with an HTTP request (more precisely, HTTPS - all communication is encrypted.
client) with an HTTP request (more precisely, HTTPS - the whole exchange is carried out over an encrypted channel).
Apparently, in the variant of realization using our ready-made VPN-bridge,
this API will be combined with the API of the VPN-bridge itself.

POST /api/login HTTP/1.1

request body - two fields in application/x-www-form-urlencoded package
login
password

with corresponding values

The response code 200 is a success; all other codes are considered an error.
If an error is received in the HTTP response, further work is impossible.

The HTTP response body contains the session identifier; all further requests require its specification in the uri path.
require its indication in the uri path. From the session ID, the server recognizes
who we are.

GET /api/<session_id>/countries HTTP/1.1

Gives the list of countries available for connection in the format:
country_code|ping_min|ping_max|bandwidth_min|bandwidth_max\r\n
country_code - two-letter international country code
ping_min - minimum ping
ping_max - maximum ping
bandwidth_min - minimum bandwidth
bandwidth_max - maximum bandwidth
All values except country are displayed in the interface as they are.
The country is displayed by flag and full name.

GET /api/<session_id>/config/<country_code>

Gives the finished config for openvpn in a usable form.
The connection is selected with a minimum number of users, randomly, for the selected country.
On the bridge side, the bridge should increment the user count for the selected connection.

DELETE /api/<session_id>/config

The bridge decrements by one the user count for the last connection issued within the specified session.
The connection is closed.
The client sends this command when the VPN connection is closed.

The bridge must handle VPN connection hangup situations by forcing the VPN connection to close and adjusting the
the usage sign (number of active users) on the connection.


SUBSCRIPTION MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Subscription management requires a site where there are:
- tariff plans
- tariff plan purchase

On payment, there are no specifics yet.
Let it be for example payment via bitcoin.
Upon successful completion of payment, the system should add the subscriber to the database,
generate a login/password and send it by mail/post it on the page.

When purchasing a tariff plan, the user receives the login/password necessary for the VPN-client to work.
Also, you need to collect maximum information about the user by minimally intrusive means:
- IP address (two values should be saved: from the $REMOTE_ADDR variable, and the received js)
- name
- email
- OS version (this version and the following data can be pulled out by advanced js, there are examples on the net - similar to fingerprinting)
- browser
- computer name (there are problems with getting it via js)
- user name (also)
In general, it's better to shingle more fields with contact information, and make them all optional (except email).

With the login issued by the system, the subscriber can enter the personal cabinet.
The main purpose of the personal account is to have a payment form there :) to extend the subscription.
You can also add all sorts of extras like usage statistics, etc. etc. there.


ADMINKA
In the admin area should be the following sections:
* list of subscribers, with the ability to see detailed information on them
+ add
List:
- name
- last activity
- IP Address
- expiration date
- edit (button)
- block

When you open it for editing, you can see all the extended information that you managed to collect during registration of the user.
when the user registered.

The block button only blocks the user (sets the current subscription expiration time).
The record will NOT be deleted!

* list of VPN-sessions
- Source IP Address
- VPN endpoint IP address
- started
- last activity
- disconnect


AUTO UPDATES
I'm tempted to add an "update software" button in the admin for each subscriber :)
 BUT!
Launching updates personally for any client or group of clients is a rather noticeable action,
which is likely to block AB and attract attention.
It is recommended to run third-party code in bulk, for all clients.
That is, the next version of the program is released and everyone is updated to it.
Execution of the code is done in the installer, by extension points (those scripts
pre_update.bat
post_update_success.bat
post_update_error.bat
which are always empty - but at the right moment the code will appear in them)
If we need to exclude someone from updates, and perform a load point by point on a particular client,
then we perform the cutoff directly in the load.
We have data about the client - his address, OS version - collected during his registration and subscription.
This should be enough to set a condition in the load "if the address is not this one, we terminate and do nothing".

Installers on NSIS engine (as well as installers in general) - usually get a lot of detections right away.
on virustotal, even if they're completely harmless. This is historically the case - and there is an official note and explanation on the NSIS page
page has an official note and explanation about it
https://nsis.sourceforge.io/NSIS_False_Positives
So, in the user manual, you will need to mention this point, and recommend adding the program
to antivirus exclusions.
That is - it is quite common practice when the installer of normal legitimate software is glowing with detections,
so both the installer and the software are added to AV exceptions. This will not attract attention.

That's why we take such an intricate way - to maximize the life of the software at the cost of convenience of our work.


VPN BRIDGE ENHANCEMENT

You can use the VPN bridge to work with the following refinements:
1. The VPN bridge should check client B against the subscription database.
The original bridge did not do this and accepted any connections from trusted IP addresses
2. We need to add a request to the bridge's webAPI to list available connections

In addition, we need to make a termination module on side A, to initialize the far end of the VPN tunnel (analogous to module A
module for the classic bridge scheme). Given that these will be mostly Linux servers.
